# Skin-Cancer-Detection
Nowadays, skin cancer is seen as one of the most Hazardous form of the Cancers found in Humans. Skin cancer is the uncontrolled growth of abnormal skin cell. Skin cancer diseases are very dangerous, particularly when not treated or Recognized at an early stage. Skin cancer is the most common of all cancer type. In skin cancer number of cases has been going up over the past few year. Many skin cancers are caused by much exposure to ultraviolet (UV) rays. Most of this exposure comes from the natural and artificial means like of sun and man-made sources. The three most common types are Melanoma, Basal Cell Skin Cancer and Squamous Cell Skin Cancer. Melanoma begins in melanocytes On any skin surface. Melanoma is rare in dark skin people and it is usually found on skin like on the head, on the neck, between the shoulders, on lower legs, on palms of the hands, on the soles of feet or under the finger nails Whereas Basal cell skin cancer begins in the basal cell layer of the skin. It is usually occurs in places that have been in the sun. Basal cell skin cancer is the most common type of cancer in fair people on the other hand squamous cell skin cancer begins in squamous cells.Squamous cell skin cancer is the most common type of skin cancer in dark people and it’s usually found in places that are not exposed to the sun such as the legs or feet.

The computer aided diagnostics is helpful to increase the diagnosis accuracy as well as the speed. Computer is not more intelligent than human but it may be able to extract some information like colour variation, asymmetry, texture features,etc that may not be  readily perceived by human eyes.

Time is very crucial in cancer treatment. If cancer can be detected at early stage then it can be cured by any proper treatment and medicines by dermatologist. But if cancer reach into danger stage with passing time then there is no treatment available.

By Using our system patient can at least know that if he has a sign of skin cancer or not by uploading image of his/her skin and if system founds that he can have melanoma then the user can consult dermatologist and do the proper medical test to be sure of what kind of cancer and how severe it is.

Our system can be very handy to the user because he just need to upload the image and save the time of user.
